The student body. Describe the student body. Who
was here? What kind of students, people, where
were they from?
What was their tip? What
was their basic attitude about life and so forth?
Oh, I don't think it's a lot different now than it
was
then. To me, the biggest entrepreneur in the
world, right?
All kinds of opportunities. Is it chicken or egg?
Were they that way before they got to A&M? I don't
think so. You think A&M? Not necessarily.
Part of it could be. What is it at A&M that caused
that, that generates that?
There again, I go back to the court. And I don't know
how you could say that would cause it today, since
it's such a small part of the body. But he's still a
very big part of it.
But I don't really have a good answer. Just a
spirit. But you don't get anywhere else. And many
muster his life. What
are
the factors that youth can think of that
contribute to that spirit?
I
guess the fact that
you probably
have a
place in life that you wouldn't
have if you hadn't been a part of the university.
And it's such that
It's a very real thing. And it's displayed in many
ways.
And it's probably not even recognized as such by
anyone else around.
points
in life.
Thank you.
All right, the student body, small town. Let's
talk about the diversity. Were there some Jewish?
Economically,
the typical Aggie came from what kind of family?
Did
it matter whether a kid was from a rich or poor
family?
No, absolutely not. Not at all. And it didn't
matter what religion. Those were important.
Let's jump on that a second. How were Jewish
students treated? Oh, just like any other. How
were the Catholic students treated? Just like any
other. Did you all have any nicknames?
No. Right now, I see earlier I learned that some of
the Jewish students were called Jew boy, but it was
not meant negative, like you might be called
country. And were there any international
students that you were
aware of? In petroleum engineering
in particular?
Did they come to A&M specifically for the
engineering? Was there a special link that
brought them? I really don't know. Well, I'm
certain it was a national company in Mexico or
something up here in the United States. I'm sure
they could put it down there. And I'm sure over
there, particularly in Saudi Arabia, it was
around the coast, some of the bigger oil companies
were trying to get some natives over there
trained. Were they non-reg or were they in the
Corps? No, they were not. that I know of. Lived on
campus?
Yeah. Well, that causes me to mention, were there
faculty living on campus much?
South
of where physics, south and east of G. Raleigh?
Well, maybe south of G. Ronald. I'm sorry. East but
west. Well, there were practice students there.
You're in the project houses. Yeah.
There weren't any faculty houses left? No. Okay.
Because, see, the faculty had once lived on the
campus there south of where the Colas building is
now. Really? Yeah. Did not know that. Oh, yeah.
They were gone. OK. Married student housing?
Because of what they call it, bed building. A lot of
beds.
Let's see. Korean War. Korean War was going right
on. While you get there. That's right. All right.
Let's talk about that a second. What did you and
your friends, what did y'all think you were going
to be facing worldwide? Did you think that you
might be in some kind of active duty military? Oh,
there's no question I was going to be on active
duty. When I signed the contract, I signed on for
two years active duty, six years inactive. So, you
know, I had an eight-year delay. It ends up I'm
having to be a Cold War veteran, but I could have
been a very hot one very quickly.
I went
out to find out what petroleum was needed and I was
able to do that for a year and a half after I got out of
university.
So before I didn't go in until like 1956 and came
back out in 1958, What world event, world or
national events, do you remember happening while
you were an undergraduate that seemed to you very
significant to you? I think I bought a green one
because we had several plans . But
there
weren't
any assassinations? Like I tell people, every one
of
them...
Let's go on to 55.
Were there any...
Were there any... important visitors to the
campus, notable individuals who came to speak?
Not like
we have.
But by the time I got out of here, I had heard most of
the big things. Such as? And
most of those played, where were their concerts?
No, but where was the dance, where were the dances
held? At Sabisa. And how did people... How did
people behave at those?
Just like they should. Just like you'd expect.
Let's see, I'm not asking anybody else this
question. What were the evils that you and your
buddies knew about?
Telling bad jokes, using bad language, What did,
what drinking, what did drinking mean? If
somebody was going to be drinking, what were they
drinking? Well, okay, let's say it's a freshman
year. The first, the first time in a lot that a guy
has ever hit you. And
if people were smoking, what were they smoking?
What? What did y'all know about other than tobacco
of some sort?
Driving fast, telling bad jokes, chasing girls,
and only bumpkins chewed tobacco.
Country, you know, country. Unless you played
baseball. Oh yeah, that was different.
Of course you can't do that now.
Let's
see. These dances. Did you dance with the same girl
for every dance that night? Every number? Could
a guy go without a date and cut in?
All right, would you then and one of your friends
ever for the next dance swap partners? Okay, sure.
And you would do that only though with friends?
Some people, no. Yeah, didn't do it with
strangers? No. But she didn't come all the way down
for, you know, being humiliated. G. Raleigh,
describe going to an important event in G.
Raleigh,
why? Because it was built during your time.
How
big did y'all think it was when it
was finished? Was your commencement held there?
Please describe...
The biggest difference I've seen now is in the
commission ceremony.
We had several hundred getting commissions.
Now it's just a handful. I don't need to go take a
look. It's amazing. I didn't know that. Describe
commissioning and commencement was on the same
day? On the same day. Describe that day. Who was
there? Oh,
of course, my parents and
my wife. Probably my sister. Probably, yeah. Was
there a, do you even remember who the speaker was?
Was it somebody of the? No, but I tell you, I
remember one of the things. I had the
opportunity to get the speaker for our senior, our
senior base.
.
And
you're
inferring that when he got through, y'all did
wonder why you'd ask. The senior and the senior
band, who went to the senior banquet? Was this for
dates, or was it only the seniors? Dates.
And at commencement, name was called, everybody,
hands were shaking. So what kind of? .
That you had cleared all your courses? What was
a normal academic load per semester?
There's
all those labs.
Do you remember most of your classes being large or
small? I
remember
a lot with the technical
chemistry, some of the more basic geology
courses. Some of those were the slowest. But
speaking of the others, the last two or three
years, we've had only probably 15 problems, and
normally probably 25 or 30. Were your
instructors, your teachers, were they
accessible if you needed to talk to them? Let's
see. We talked about some of John's. Did you have a
car? No. Never had a car. Never had a car. Did you
ever borrow anybody else's? If so, what were the
rules about? No, but I had a roommate that had one
of the last two years. Actually, the last three
years. So usually I had a wife. And here were all
kinds of questions. I was going to ask about how did
a guy who didn't have a girlfriend had to get a date.
Those don't apply to you. You dated the same young
lady. Let's see. Was there a guy named Pinky Downs
around then? I don't
know who the new Pinky Downs is. There's not. Bupo.
But Bo was a very strong
man, and he later
was. He was always the one that, if you needed
something in the making, you could probably go to
him. You could probably get along with him. Were
anybody important in the commandant's area
during your days that you remember? Let's see.
Colonel Davis was the commandant. Please
describe him. I asked
him if he was the biggest son in the house. I'm sure
he wasn't an old man, but maybe older, but he made
quite an appearance.
student
organizations what was the most prestigious
undergraduate student position office
if you could have been anything on campus
we really didn't have
a The student body president, the closest to that
would be the president of the student senate or the
president of the senior platoon. But was that as
high in prestige as corps commander?
They're
different.
Okay. Probably not. All right, other positions
of... I think as I look at it, later in life, I think
it's probably a lot higher. But it's necessary to
make sure. At the time, what were the other key
student positions on campus?
Student Corps. Correct. Student Corps.
What
did you and your classmates think about the Aggie
Band? They were always
changing songs when we'd go by to review them. So
what's different?
We thought
they
were great. Can you share any information about
supposedly secret fraternities? The T.T.s. Was
there such? Well, there evidently was because I
lost my freshman squad commander. And then his
brother, a classmate of mine, got busted as a
senior. Supposedly because they belong to this
same secret true text. Apparently. Surely
somebody has talked to you about that. Well, I
really don't know that much about it. Nobody has
known? It's a mysterious thing. Two or three
people said it didn't exist at all. Well, I think it
did. It had to. Do you have any idea as to how many?
How many members? Members? I had a placement that
seemed to know more about it than I did. We were
always getting into politics together. I'd
nominate him, and he'd nominate me. But he... He
really seemed to think Uncle Ed was the T.T.
hanging. Maybe you've heard of that. I don't know.
I've heard that. And that apparently the object of
the T.T.' 's was to get their members elected. In
control. In control of key positions on campus.
That's what it sounds like. All right. Have you
heard mention of any other? No. What about the
stickers? I've never heard of that. Swastikas.
No, I've not heard of that. Apparently there was
way back in the 20s. Oh, okay. And the swastika,
this was before Adolf Hitler, before the Nazis,
the Navajo symbol of friendship. And that
supposedly... That was their secret symbol. And
if you look through the Longhorn in the 20s, you
will see on certain pages a swastika. But no one has
admitted to me if they were a member or knew a
member. Nobody has yet. And so I've had fun kind of
asking about that. And as far as anyone has given me
any information, they don't know anyone who they
knew was a member. But you should have been asked to
call some people. Oh. That said, I do know of some of
the members that were busted in Miami. Mm-hmm. I
definitely know them there at different times.
Let's see, did you have any, did you have much
opportunity to ever be in a faculty member's home
or any other off-campus person?
I can remember with the Churchill there. I can also
remember the first weekend I don't really
remember
going to anyone's
home
except the president between the flags. So I can
remember going
out to this one old professor on Thanksgiving or
Thanksgiving afternoon or something and just
visiting. But that's, and I can remember, as I
said, being the president's own, David Morgan,
but mainly all the students. Did you ever hear any
stories, reports, of any faculty or professional
staff misbehavior, indiscretions? No. That's
the answer I would have assumed. Let's
see.
Have you described a court trip yet? No. Okay. Tell
me about a court trip. I don't remember the first
time. I don't remember the first word.
How
did you get from College Station to Fort Worth?
Hitchhiking? And
you all would gather at about what time, say for
Fort Worth, where would you gather and where
would you march? I think it's always downtown.
They
normally, they,
uh, listen, I would say, up to the courthouse, to
the magistrate, and they, uh, come on and want to
fit in that. It's a matter of who you want to get. Uh,
back then, we, we would go to, uh, each one of the,
uh, boards, and then we'd establish an office for
the other kids. What was the reaction of the
audience, the onlookers, as you all were
marching? All very, very hard.